---
title: 'Student presentations at 103rd Annual AMS Conference'
date: 2023-06-05
permalink: /posts/2023/06/students-present-at-AMS/
tags:
  - TILTTING
  - category1
  - category2
---

At the start of 2023, Millersville University students traveled to Denver, CO for the 103rd Annual AMS conference. Among the students were members of Project TILTTING, presenting on several topics that included the development of a prototyped instrument, methodology and strategies for the project, a case study involving a QLCS storm, along with an overview of the project.

Ryan Argenti presented on the testing of the prototyped TILTTING-23 probe, involving its specifications and electronic components used to build the device. Additionally, he and other members tested the intrumentation in two different environments to analyze the probe’s representativeness.

Rhiannon Cahoe presented on our case study involving the QLCS line that struck southeastern Pennsylvania on August 30, 2022. The presentation focused on determining whether or not if a rear-inflow jet (RIJ) associated with the QLCS was responsible for its rapid intensification on approach to Lancaster, PA.

Shane Martrich thoroughly explains, describes, and shows TILTTING’s methodology & strategies to be implemented in the field. Each aspect of the presentation goes in depth on how we plan to successfully execute research missions in both regions, the Northeast and Great Plains.

Sam Leppo discusses an overview of Project TILTTING and how the students went from an idea to a fully funded and equipped research mission.

Headings are cool
======

You can have many headings
======

Aren't headings cool?
------